# DBMS-Project
University Database management system project

UNIVERSITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM deals with the maintenance of university, college, faculty, student information and other department employee information within the university. UMS has a relational database, which is used to store the college, faculty, student, courses and information of a college.
Starting from registration of a new student in the college, it maintains all the details regarding the course enrolled by the student, attendance and marks of the students. The project deals with retrieval of information through an internet- based campus wide portal. It collects related information from all the departments of an organization and maintains files, which are used to generate reports in various forms to measure individual and overall performance of the students.
The university management system is store and retrieve the information through web-based application. So, it collects the information of individual and overall performance of students in various departments. UMS focuses on the basic need of accomplishing the task of maintaining the large stock of information in a university by creating a database. The interface is a very efficient application for the management of a university which not only benefits the user of the university but also plays a major role in enabling the management of the university to work in a proficient manner. This system will be a platform where users will have access to the facilities of the university including blackboard from anywhere using the Internet. This project report will provide a detailed account of the functionalities of the user interface which is taken as a reference to manage a university. Each subsection of this phase report will feature the important functionalities of the database design.
